---
layout: post
title: Brand and Brand Positioning
description: Brand and Brand Positioning
summary: Brand and Brand Positioning
date: 2020-06-02T14:26:48.807Z
tags:
  - branding
---
### About Brand

Brand is a distinctive set of attribute, benefits and values that people associate with a particular name or symbols.  A great brand is:

* must have / guided by a purpose - a clear reason for being regardless of industry. 
* distinctive with unique and unmistakable identity. 
* relevant - meeting consumer need which is grounded in insight and foresight and yet flexible in anticipation of potential future disruption. 
* differentiated - provide unique brand experience. 

### Brand Positioning 

At the heart of great brand is a clear and compelling brand positioning. The brand positioning clarifies what the brand stands for, guides decision making and ensures the brand leaves a distinctive impression on their consumers, and provide actionable guidelines for multi functional team to deliver consistent customer experience - which ultimately deliver financial growth. 

Brand positioning is described as the act of designing the company offering and image to occupy a distinctive place in the mind of target market (Kotler and Keller) -  It is the articulation of what you want your brand to stand for, the unique space you want to own in people's heart and mind. 

Brand positioning often is expressed through a framework (e.g. Brand pyramid, keys or onions). Most framework share similar core components where each component build upon another and closely intertwined ultimately influencing the product and experience of the brand, for example: Brand Purpose, Personality (and values), Root Strength (point of difference, reason to believe), Brand Assets.

Drawing from different brand positioning elements and frameworks, we can find 6 key principles of great brand positioning: 

* Desirable: meets a segment need that is grounded in insight. 
* Differentiated: offers something unique that no competitor does
* Deliverable: provides practical benefits that can be delivered
* Enduring: has a foot in the present and an eye on the future
* Engaging: Connects both rational head and emotional heart
* Directional: provides clear guidelines for brand development

### Brand Purpose

Brand purpose is brand's reason for being and how the brand is relevant to the world. As Simon Sinek said, "People don't buy what you do. They buy why you do it": People don't connect to a company product and services. They buy into the reason why these companies exist; They buy into the idea company exist for something larger than themselves. 

A strong brand purpose means having a distinct brand perspectives that influences what company does and does not do. It's what drives company forward. Brand purpose offers a basis for customer relationships that goes beyond functional benefits - to self expressive, emotional or social benefits. Andy Bird and Mhairi McEwan who conducted growth driver study found that clear purpose is number 1 contributor to growth driving companies. A purpose led brand with clear values create employee and customer happiness, the 2 biggest drivers of growth. 

### Brand Campaign

Brand positioning and expression are articulated / communicated externally through brand campaign. The brand campaign helps to raise brand awareness, consideration and conversion. It is generally short term and contain various consumer facing communication activities. Great brand campaigns are rooted in strong consumer understanding. There are 3 core elements to a successful brand campaign:

1. Being remembered: Positively memorable as it drives engagement and brand equity
2. Reaching the right people through consumer understanding, with effective and relevant touch point planning and channel selection. 
3. Getting noticed by being distinctive and stand out from the competition 

### Bringing Brand Position to life

Brand positioning is brought to life throughout consumer experience not just through brand campaign or communication. This can be done with the use of consumer journey - an insightful map of consumer segments' interaction with the brand that outline the entire consumer experience. Consumer journey map helps to bring brand positioning to life and guides the development of experience offerings. The tool can help uncover opportunities, barriers, moments of truth and deeper consumer insights, leads to more robust business decisions, development of more compelling and relevant strategies and offerings to engage customers.

Consumer experience is made up every touchpoint of a brand. To connect with consumers at the right place and time, the most relevant touchpoint must be used and the brand positioning should be brought to life consistently throughout the consumer experience across all touchpoints. To be effective, all consumer journey have a few key principles in common:

* they bring to life brand purpose and desired experience across all touchpoints
* are focused on the specific journey for a specific type of consumer and their goals
* a written from the consumer's point of view
* incorporate what the consumer feels or their emotional state
* built from multiple data sources, incl. formal and informal data.

Brand positioning can also influence business decisions and culture. A critical way to bring brand positioning to life is for businesses to bring their brand purpose to life through leadership behaviors: e.g. through courage, commitment or passion in engaging stakeholders, addressing key strategic questions and making bold decisions.

### Brand Equity Drivers

Brand Equity is another key components of brand positioning - it is brand's power and value that has been derived from the goodwill and name recognition that it has earned over time. There can be various brand equity drivers: tagline, sound/music, symbol, logo, patterns, language, scent, taste, physical interface, color, font, shape, etc. Product quality, personality, culture, and consumer experience are also critical in driving brand equity. 

It is important to understand how consumer perceives and build relationship with the brand by assessing key metrics and measuring brand equity. Measuring brand equity helps us to understand brand health & strength overtime, gain insight into the impact of marketing activities, and to allow for course correction as necessary to ensure brand remain strong in the long run. As Tachi Kiuchi mentioned "Metrics are to a business what the five senses are to humans - systems of feedback that improve our capacity to adapt and excel over the long run".  Brand equity is generally measured with quantitative research. Some of the key measurements most often used are:

* Brand Awareness: the strength of a brand in a consumer's memory
* Brand Perception: the consumer understanding of what the brand stands for and how it is differentiated from other brands
* Brand affinity: the level of consumer's emotional connection with the brand