---
layout: link
title: "ST: Restaurants petition food delivery platforms to lower commissions"
date: 2020-04-16T05:45:13.752Z
linkurl: https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/coronavirus-restaurants-petition-food-delivery-platforms-to-lower-commissions
---
Tan Hsueh Yun:

Restaurant owners have come together to petition food delivery platforms to lower the commissions they charge as food and beverage outlets here continue to bleed in the coronavirus pandemic. Enhanced safe distancing measures here mean restaurants can offer only takeaways and deliveries.

More than 2,500 restaurant owners and customers have signed the petition on Change.org since it went online on Wednesday (April 15). It was started by #savefnbsg, a coalition of more than 600 restaurants formed by restaurateurs Loh Lik Peng of the Unlisted Collection and Beppe de Vito of the ilLido Group. It is addressed to three groups: delivery platforms, the Government and customers. 

In an open letter to the platforms, of which the main players are Deliveroo, Foodpanda and GrabFood, the petitioners say: "Nobody has ever liked the rates imposed on us but we tolerated them because in the not-so-distant past, the money from your sales didn't form a core pillar of our revenue streams. We watched in frustration as your commission increased steadily from 20 per cent to 30 per cent." An accompanying graphic shows how a restaurant makes a 50 cent net profit from a $25 sale, after paying rent, salaries, cost of ingredients, packaging, utilities, marketing and delivery commissions. The petitioners are asking the Singapore Government to mandate that delivery platforms lower their commission by at least 15 per cent - following the lead of San Francisco, which capped fees at 15 per cent - saying the move would "play a huge part in our survival". Finally, the petitioners ask that customers bypass the delivery apps and instead, order directly from the restaurants for takeaway and delivery. Many have come up with their own delivery systems to ferry food islandwide.

Foodpanda, which has over 9,000 restaurants and hawkers on its app, said that in the last month, it has had a 200 per cent increase in the number of food and beverage businesses offering delivery on its platform, but said it could not provide exact figures of how many joined from January this year. Its commission rates range from 30 to 35 per cent. Foodpanda said it is working with Enterprise Singapore to waive fees for eateries to get onto the app, and takes no commission on orders for new sign-ups for the first month. Together with hawker food delivery platform WhyQ, it is offering customers up to 35 per cent off orders from hawker stalls. The discount is borne by the two platforms to encourage more people to support local hawkers.

Deliveroo platform has 6,700 partner restaurants and said it has seen 700 new restaurants join since January, with another 200 expected to be added in the next two weeks. The spokesman added that Deliveroo has partnered Enterprise Singapore to introduce what it calls a "new capability development pack" to help restaurants transition from dine-in to delivery and takeaway. It will waive up to $360 of the fee it charges for restaurants who sign on, and provide free product photography to market their menus.  Also included are webinars, one-on-one consultations, marketing support and data and insights to improve restaurants' delivery performance and business models.

Grab, which says it has over 10,000 merchant-partners, said it has added more than 1,500 food and beverage businesses since January this year. Like Deliveroo, it would not say how much commission it charges.  "Some of these initiatives, such as Islandwide Deliveries, have helped some merchants to achieve some 30 per cent growth in their orders, and enabled others to reinstate their kitchen crew or even hire more manpower to meet the demand. We have also rolled out 0 per cent commission for self-pick-up orders which helps merchants who traditionally rely on walk-ins... On a platform where all four parties, including Grab, are interdependent, we want to be fair to all users. Any new changes to be introduced in favour of one party is not to be taken lightly as it will inevitably affect the other three parties in the ecosystem." 

Some food and beverage businesses, however, are looking at new ways to help themselves. Mr Colin Chen, owner of six-year-old The Refinery, a restaurant-bar in King George's Avenue set up www.foodhood.sg, tying up with six other food and beverage businesses in the Jalan Besar area so customers can order from multiple merchants on the list and pay one delivery fee, which is $8 for orders of $80 and under. He uses a team of freelance drivers to make the deliveries.